Is APP market competitive? if one looks at millions of APPs in the market the answer seems to be yes.
about APPs excessively request our private data 

The APP market is perhaps one of the most prosperous and free markets in our age but people are growingly concerned that APPs excessively request our private data. But if free competition promises efficiency and the best of consumer welfare, as convention wisdom theory suggests, are our privacy worries superfluous? In this study we seek to answer a funndamental question in the APP market: would competition affects APP vendor's incentive to request customer information?

According to APP Annie's 2016 annual report\footnote{https://www.appannie.com/en/insights/market-data/app-annie-2016-retrospective/}, Android App market is now offering almost 3 million APPs and this number on APP Store is more than 2 million. Among these APPs, more than 80\% Android APPs are free and nearly 70\% iphone APPs are free. These APP vendors, though don't charge money from customers directly, could base their profit on collecting customer data, for example, consumer preference information would allow firms to make better advertising strategy, consumers' location information and navigation history enable firms to conduct precise marketing.

On the other hand, consumer's concerns about the security of personal data on smart phones are at an all-time high. People worry, for example, misuse of the information in address book which would reveal trade secrets, or, leakage of daily routine stored in the calendar which might be shared with criminals. In 2012, Grace et al. conducted an thorough investigation which confirmed that many App vendors did collect user private information which is hard to justify, Savage and Waldman(2013) find on average customers are willing to pay $5.06 to protect their privacy when using mobile APPs.  

According to classical economic theory, scholars widely acknowledge that insufficient competition would result in excessive prices and loss of consumer welfare. Ever since, policies that aim to promote competition have become an instrument for generating better social outcomes by directly influencing market structure. Similarly, by drawing an analogy between private data and price charged from APP vendors, one might automatically expect promoting APP competition would in consumer's interests in alleviate firm's desire for more customer data.

However, before directly borrowing the idea of price competition theory, one needs to note some unique characteristics of APP market. From firm's side, APPs are highly differentiated. It may take big companies such as Facebook, Google millions of dollars to develop an APP but an amateur can develop a simple one in just a few days. And the cost mainly costs from developing, meaning once developed, they are nearly free to reproduce or distribute. From user's side, APP marketplace allows easy comparison and download, so the search cost is low. And most of APPs are free, we choose APPs based on functionality and privacy preference.

Contrary to what convention wisdom would suggest, we surprisingly find competition may NOT affect firm's tendancy to request customer data by incorporating these characteristics into analysis. We testify this conjecture through both theoretical and empirical analysis. On doing this, we propose a APP competition model which can explain the structure of APP market and possibly be applied to evaluate policy issues in APP market. Empirical evidence turns out to support the theoretical analysis. In the extension of this paper, we use this model to further evaluate the maximum privacy requirements standard policy.

Literature Review

Our research is also related to the economic aspects of privacy(). This stream generally aims to examine the incentives and trade-offs that emerge from the public and privacy spheres(). One related paper is Campbell et al (2015), in this work they study the impact of privacy regulation on market structure. They find the negative consequence of regulation falls disproportionately on smaller firms which could do harm to competitive market. Our work is different from theirs in that regardless how privacy regulation would affect the market in the later stage we examine how the market would like and how different market structure would influence privacy in the first place.
Another relevant paper is from Casadesus-Masanell and Hervas-Drane (2014). They also study how competition affect privacy but in a different setting, in their two-sided market the firms profit from both charging monetary price and disclosing customer information. They find competition need not result in high privacy as long as firm can translate competitive pressure to lower price and information disclosure. Our distinction is that there is no price instrument in our model so the reason that competition may not promote privacy result from totally differen mechanism. Without exception, all previous research only consider the monopoly or duopoly case but we generalize our model to multiple agents. We intepret this fact as our model examine the relationship between market structure and privacy in a more systematic way and the setting is closer to reality.
The second relevant stream evaluates privacy protection policies. For example, opt-in vs opt-out(), property right(), restriction on usage of personal data(Goldfarb and E.Tucker 2010), data breach disclosure(Romanosky et al 2011), personal data control(Tucker 2014). In general, these policies belong to two categories: reguation approach and self-regulation approach (Acquisti et al., 2016). The self-regulation approach is rooted in the idea that the free market tend to generate optimal outcome, so if customers are not satisfied with currect privacy options, competing firms always have incentives to provide an equivalent choice with better privacy options. Conversely, our study suggest this may not be the case.
Our analysis of APP market sturcture is also broadly related to the discussion about online market structure(). Basically, there are two dominate effects on online markets: "superstar"(Rosen 1991; Frank and Cook, 1995) or "information cascade"(), and “long tail” (Anderson, 2004; Brynjolfsson et al., 2006, 2010, 2011) effect. "super star" effect was used to explain income inequity and they find a marginal advantage is enough for super star to gain large markets(explain the phenomenon), (more explaination, software adoption, information goods). "long tail" distribution, on the other hand, argues  that the niche products gain a large share of total demands because of the availability of recommendation system and search tools. Until now, there is no general conclusion about under what condition which effect is more likely to happen, (more discussion). While in this study we suggest a potential important but less discussed factor, the type of differentiation, could explain why some markets are concerntrated towards the top list while others are concerntrated along the tail in APP market.

In this paper, we analyze a model in which APP vendors strategically choose APP quality and information request and heterogenerous customers choose APPs according to quality and privacy preference. The equilibirum features that market pressure drives APPs to differentiate with each other to the extent that high quality and lower quality APPs target different customers which almost have no overlaps with each other. Consequently, leading APP's strategy in terms of both privacy and quality choice are almost irresponsive to more competing APPs. For tractability, we analyze the simplest possible model but the empirical observations in two leading Android APP markets in China is consistent with our insight. By comparing the APPs from the same category, we show market share, quality and information request are exponentially distributed with few leader APPs dominate the markets. By comparing the information request across different APP categories, we do not find evidence that competition has any significant impacts on APP's information requests.
For policy makers, our study suggests the self-regulation approach to privacy problems may not work. self-regulation advocators hold the belief that firms should refrain from requesting excessive customer information in order to retain customers who can switch among competing APPs, in this sense, free market should automatically genenerate better outcomes. While we show that free market competition alone need not lead to better customer privacy or influencing dominating firms at large. 
Further, although our focus here is the APP market, our model has general setting so the implication may extend to other free services or products which are quite common on the Internet. For example, despite the fact there are many other free search engines on the Internet people may often feel insufficient options except Google, our interpretation of this phenomenon is that small firms find their best interest to provide very low quality 
economics of scale and low entry barrier in Internet world, together allows small firms survive even without serving the mainstream customers. 

Since competition policies have succeed in many precedent markets, many people expect they would similarly work well in the information age. As the european commmissioner for competition, Margrethe Vestager said "But I hope it makes clear that we don't need a whole new competition rulebook for the big data world. Just as we didn't need one for a world of fax machines, or credit cards, or personal computers. What we do need is to pay close attention to these markets and to take action when it’s necessary". Conversely, our study suggests some convictions about the competition theories or policies may not applicable in big data world. Even in a free market like the mobile APP market, competition does not guarantee better privacy environments, products and choices.


In traditional markets high differentiation often lead to natural oligopoly but here we demostrate 
in APP market two factors: This interpretation could possibly explain why may feel that APP market is largely a dominated market despite millions of alternative APPs in the market.

 Advocators of the self-regulation solution to privacy problems holds the belief that the free market competition would limit firms from invade customer information. Intuitively, firms should refrain from requesting excessive customer information in order to retain customers who can switch among competing APPs.



need not generate better outcomes. Alternative solutions other than competition promotion policies (e.g.  restricting M&A, guaranteed free entry, encouraging SME) should be 

Classic competition theory has guided policy markers generate numerous policies whic aim to build a healthy market, of course there is no necessarility to expect 

researchers, practioners and policy markers have long applying the competititon theory to guide their 


In this paper, we examine the role of competition in building() a privacy-friendly APP market. Competition has been perceived 


summarize the result: how the conviction originate, countervailing effect
several factors contribute to the effect
implication
extend the implication



the APP market structure with a simple setting. 

 Nevertheless, by  on two leading Android APP marketplaces,  More generally, APP vendor's quality, information request strategy seem to be irreponsive to more competing APPs.

Our explanation for this empirical puzzle is that the market equilibrium drives 

identifies a "market failure", where customers are not blessed with more privacy options or better privacy outcomes because companies find their best strategy is not to compete directly but to differentiate as much as possible.

depends on that free market tend to drive optimal solution so with strategic customers who can evaluate the benefits and costs of releasing one's privacy, firms are better off respecting privacy. So the main focus should be transparency and control. Recently, this approach has been questioned in the way that company can manipulate customer's peceived control of privacy which would lead users to take more risks with their personal information. Our work challenge this approach in an another way, the effectiveness of self-regulation could be questioned if competition does not promise more privacy option or less collection of private data.

relies on the assumption that firms would be refrained from invade customer privacy in the free competitive market through the mechanism of privacy-sensitive customer's adverse response. However, our work suggest self-regulation may not work if competition does not drive firms to take actions in favor of customer privacy.


free market would automatically drive optimal solutions. So if customers are really concerned with privacy, the market competition would offer more friendly privacy options for customer

approach relies on the assumption that free market competition would automatically firm tend to respect customer privacy more to as long as strategic customers "notice and consent" privacy usage.
the free market would drive firms to adopt privacy-friendly policies through customer self-selection. 


limitation: the market we are considering has reached a equilibrium state, not true
some big companies make use of existing resources can distort the equilibrium
empirica of directly measuring information request

why tag+category

use baidu marketplace category framework. because it is leading to 360 marketplace.
intent to use baidu marketplace, category too general, tag some advertisement can not distinguish them. use 360 marketplace category to distinguish

weighted permissions, alternative markets, permissions, rating/updates

reverse causality? more confidence in dominating firms and strengthen their positions
