 Moorthy 1984
My analysis also has different implications for societal welfare compared to FMW.  In the FMW analysis, if demand is perfectly inelastic (as for example when consumers  buy one unit of some product or none at all) then the monopolist's assignment of products to segments is efficient-each consumer's marginal willingness to pay for his  assigned product equals the monopolist's marginal cost for that product. Not so with  self-selection: I show in ?6 that the monopolist's assignment of products and prices is  inefficient, i.e. society could gain from an alternative assignment of products and  prices. This inefficiency occurs even though the firm is taking into account consumers'
 tastes in designing its product line. Contrast this with FMW's (p. 184) welfare analysis: "We should note at this point that the adverse social consequences of price discrimination do not necessarily apply to other forms of market segmentation. The acts of
 positioning a product so that it appeals to a particular segment or targeting promotion  to particular classes of customers affect the consumer's utility function itself as well as  the costs of producing and marketing the product. If, given a particular price ratio, a
 consumer "likes" a differentiated product better than its substitute, there is nothing to  be gained by exchanging." With self-selection, consumers are choosing products  according to their "likes" and still there are "adverse social con
 
 Moorthy 1988
 3. The lower firm makes greater profits than the upper firm. This result is to be
 contrasted with our earlier observations that in the efficient solution the higher quality
 product generates more total surplus than the lower quality product and in the monop-
 olist's solution the higher quality product is more profitable than the lower quality
 product. The reason for the difference is that in the product equilibrium the upper firm
 has moved further away from the best single monopoly position-b/3a-than has the
 lower firm. (The distance between 0.5288b/a and b/3a is greater than the distance
 between 0.2474b/a and b/3a.) In contrast, in the monopoly solution, the higher quality
 is closer to b/3a than the lower quality. Because of this property, if one firm got first
 shot at choosing the equilibrium it would play, then it will choose the equilibrium
 where it is the lower-quality firm. This "first-mover" advantage is worth 0.0064b3/a
 (=0.0173b3/a - 0.0109b3/a) in pro
