
Mobile APPs have become indispensable to our daily lives. Although most of APPs are free, they oftentimes collect customer data which allow firms to profit. For this reason, consumer's concerns about the security of personal data on smart phones are at an all-time high. People worry, for example, misuse of the information in address book which would reveal trade secrets, or, leakage of daily routine stored in the calendar which might be shared with criminals. In 2012, Grace et al. conducted an thorough investigation which confirmed that many App vendors did collect user private information which is hard to justify, Savage and Waldman(2013) find on average customers are willing to pay \$5.06 to protect their privacy when using mobile APPs.  

On the other hand, classical economic theory generally suggests that insufficient competition would result in excessive prices and loss of consumer welfare. Therefore policies that aim to promote competition have been widely used as instruments to generate better social outcomes by directly influencing market structure. Similarly, by drawing an analogy between private data and price charged from APP vendors, it seems promoting APP competition would in consumer's interests and alleviate firm's desire for more customer data.

In this study we examine a fundamental question in the APP market: would competition reduces APP vendor's incentive to request customer information? To answer this question, one need to note some key features of APP markerts: from APP vendor's side, APPs are highly differentiated. It may take big companies such as Facebook, Google millions of dollars to develop an APP but an amateur can develop a simple one in just a few days. The cost mainly comes from developing, but once APPs developed, they are nearly free to reproduce or distribute. From customer's side, APP marketplace allows easy comparison and download, so the search cost is low. And most of APPs are free, customers choose APPs based on their hetergeneou preference for quality and privacy. 

We incorporate these characteristics into theoretical analysis and surprisingly find competition may NOT affect firm's tendency to acquire customer data. This result is a consequence of equilibirum distribution of APP vendor's strategic choice of quality and information request which follows a power-law pattern. We then use empirical data from two leading APP markets in China to verify our conjecture. We use APP Permissions to proxy the amount of customer information APP vendors' intend to aquire and show empirical evidence is consistent with(turns out to support ) our theoretical predictions: Leader APPs have high quality and request more customer information, the incentive to provide high quality and request customer information decrease exponentially. As a result, competition generally do not affect how much customer information APP vendors tend to require.

The relationship between competition and privacy is essential for the debate over regulation and self-regulation solutions for privacy problems. past research has studied the implications of restriction on usage of personal data(Goldfarb and E.Tucker 2010), data breach disclosure(Romanosky et al 2011), personal data control(Tucker 2014), privacy asuanrance(Kl Hui, tucker), opt-in vs opt-out(Campbell et al. 2015 ) and property right(Laudon, 1996; Varian, 1997; Schwartz, 2004). In general, the regulation approach stress the need of strict privacy legislation which limit the collection and usage of personal data, while self-regulation focuses on the cost of privacy protection so advocates firm's self-regulated, competitio-driven data-handling policies (). For instance, it is arguable self-regulation may work because concerns over adverse consumer response limit advertisers’ usage of invasive targeting of ads(),  firms refrain from engaging in certain forms of price discrimination so as not to antagonize consumers (Anderson and Simester, 2010). But few literature examines whether this assumption really stands to different context, one related paper is Casadesus-Masanell and Hervas-Drane (2014). They study how competition affect privacy but in a different setting, in their two-sided market the firms profit from both charging monetary price and disclosing customer information. They find competition need not result in high privacy as long as firm can translate competitive pressure to lower price and information disclosure.Our distinction is that there is no price instrument in our model so the reason that competition may not promote privacy result from totally differen mechanism, Moreover, most of the economic analysis literature only considered monopoly or duopoly case but we generalize our model to multiple agents. We intepret this fact as our model examine the relationship between market structure and privacy in a more systematic way and is closer to reality.

Another related stream of literature studies about the consequence of free competition blessed(merited, promised,enabled) by online market. For example, price and price dispersion(), variety(), demand elasticity(). Generally, the result have been mixed, depending on the context: Some found online market lead to lower prices (Brown and Goolsbee 2002, Brynjolfsson and Smith 2000, Degeratu et al. 2000, Lee 1998, Zettelmeyer 2000, Zettelmeyer et al. 2006) , price dispersion (Ghose and Yao 2010), higher price elasticity (Ghose and Yao 2010, Lynch and Ariely 2000, Smith 2002, Smith et al.2001) and variety (). Others, on the Contrary, suggest opposite effects such as higher prices (Bailey 1998, Lal and Sarvary 1999) and the existence of price dispersion (Chellappa et al. 2010, Ghose and Yao 2010). In line with this stream, our study examine the implication of competition in mobile APP market, one of today's most prosperous online market. (privacy should be stressed)But one major difference here is the most of products on this market are free so we can see how competition affects firm's strategy in absence of price. Such difference is substantial as APP quality and information request are more intangible considerations compared with price, existing literature has not yet examine how this feature would affect the relationship.

More broadly, in analyzing. our study add to the discussion of online market structure.


, on free goods or services. 

***which have not been studied in earlier literature on price dispersion in their exact form because of the
absence of data on actual transaction--from Using Transaction Prices to Re-Examine Price Dispersion in Electronic Markets

so if customers are not satisfied with currect privacy options, competing firms always have incentives to provide an equivalent choice with better privacy options. To the extent that competition may have no influence on the market participants, the effectiveness of self-regulation approach should be questioned.
Conversely, our study suggest the inadequent side of the self-regulation side.




two side: competitive side: opportunity for niche market, uncompetitive side: market dominance


previous version
According to APP Annie's 2016 annual report\footnote{https://www.appannie.com/en/insights/market-data/app-annie-2016-retrospective/}, Android App market is now offering almost 3 million APPs and this number on APP Store is more than 2 million. Among these APPs, more than 80\% Android APPs are free and nearly 70\% iphone APPs are free. These APP vendors, though don't charge money from customers directly, could base their profit on collecting customer data, for example, consumer preference information would allow firms to make better advertising strategy, consumers' location information and navigation history enable firms to conduct precise marketing.


On the other hand, consumer's concerns about the security of personal data on smart phones are at an all-time high. People worry, for example, misuse of the information in address book which would reveal trade secrets, or, leakage of daily routine stored in the calendar which might be shared with criminals. In 2012, Grace et al. conducted an thorough investigation which confirmed that many App vendors did collect user private information which is hard to justify, Savage and Waldman(2013) find on average customers are willing to pay \$5.06 to protect their privacy when using mobile APPs.  


According to classical economic theory, scholars widely acknowledge that insufficient competition would result in excessive prices and loss of consumer welfare. Ever since, policies that aim to promote competition have become an instrument for generating better social outcomes by directly influencing market structure. Similarly, by drawing an analogy between private data and price charged from APP vendors, one might automatically expect promoting APP competition would in consumer's interests in alleviate firm's desire for more customer data.


However, before directly borrowing the idea of price competition theory, one needs to note some unique characteristics of APP market. From firm's side, APPs are highly differentiated. It may take big companies such as Facebook, Google millions of dollars to develop an APP but an amateur can develop a simple one in just a few days. And the cost mainly costs from developing, meaning once developed, they are nearly free to reproduce or distribute. From user's side, APP marketplace allows easy comparison and download, so the search cost is low. And most of APPs are free, we choose APPs based on functionality and privacy preference.


In this study we seek to answer a fundamental question in the APP market: would competition reduce APP vendor's incentive to request customer information? Contrary to what convention wisdom would suggest, we surprisingly find competition may NOT affect firm's tendency to request customer data by incorporating APP market's characteristics into analysis. We testify our conjecture through both theoretical and empirical analysis. On doing this, we propose a APP competition model in which firms strategically choose quality and information request strategy. We explore some properties of APP market defined by our model and show how these properties lead to our conclusion. Empirical evidence turns out to support the theoretical analysis.
