The relationship between competition and privacy is an elemental issue for the continuing debate over regulation and self-regulation solutions for privacy problems. Vast research has studied the implications of regulatory and self-regulatory policies such as restriction on usage of personal data(Goldfarb and E.Tucker 2011), data breach disclosure(Romanosky et al 2011), personal data control or assurance(Hui et al 2007; Brandimarte et al 2013; Tucker 2014), opt-in or opt-out(Campbell et al. 2015; Goh et al 2015) and property right or licensing(Laudon, 1996; Samuelson, 2000; Schwartz, 2004; Varian, 2009). In general, the regulation approach, adopted in EU countries, stress the need of strict privacy legislation which limit the collection, usage and retain of personal data, while self-regulation, more prevalant in US, emphasizes the cost of privacy protection and it basically goes against with the spirit of free market so prefers firm's self-regulated, competition-driven data-handling policies (Acquisti et al 2016). For instance, it is arguable self-regulation may work because it encourages firms to compete on privacy protection by allowing consumers to be informaed(Keber and Wolfgang 2016; Marotta-Wurgler 2016) or consumer's concern and adverse selection put pressure on firm’s invasive usage of data(Lohr 2010), But few literature has ever examined whether this assumption really stands to different context, one related paper is Casadesus-Masanell and Hervas-Drane (2014). They study how competition affect privacy but in a different setting, in their two-sided market the firms profit from both charging monetary price and disclosing customer information. They find competition need not result in high privacy as long as firm can translate competitive pressure to lower price and information disclosure. Our distinction is that there is no price instrument in our setting but because of totally different mechanism competition does not benefit privacy as well. Moreover, in contrast to most of the economic analysis in this area who only considered monopoly or duopoly case, we generalize our model to multiple agents and see how their interaction lead to our result. We interpret this fact as our model examine the relationship between market structure and privacy in a more systematic way so is closer to reality.

Another related stream of literature studies about the consequence of free competition blessed(merited, promised,enabled) by online market. For example, price and price dispersion, variety, demand elasticity, branding (literature review Smith et al 2001). Generally, the result have been mixed, depending on the context: Some found online market lead to lower prices (Brynjolfsson and Smith 2000; Degeratu et al. 2000; Brown and Goolsbee 2002; Zettelmeyer et al. 2006), diminishing price dispersion (Ghose and Yao 2010), higher price elasticity (Degeratu et al. 2000) and more variety (Brynjolf et al 2003). Others, on the Contrary, suggest opposite effects such as higher prices (Bailey 1998; Lal and Sarvary 1999) and the existence of price dispersion (Chellappa et al. 2010; Brynjolfsson and Smith 2000) and lower price sensitivity (Lynch and Ariely 2000). In line with this stream, our study examine the implication of competition in mobile APP market, one of today's most prosperous online market. Similar with other online markets APP market is also a nearly frictionless markket(Brynjolfsson and Smith 2000), but different from other markets is that the most of products on this market are free so we do not know yet how competition affects firm's strategy in absence of price. Such difference is substantial as consumer's choice are based on product attributes such as APP quality and information request which are more intangible compared with prices, yet limited literature has examined how this feature would affect the relationship.


More broadly, in analyzing the mobile APP market properties, our study add to the discussion of online market structure. Basically, two dominate effects exist on the online market structure: "Superstar"(Rosen 1991; Frank and Cook, 1995) and “Long Tail” (Anderson, 2004; Brynjolfsson et al., 2010, 2011) market. The "Superstar" market accords to pareto rule, meaning top products take the marjority of market share, while the "long tail" market predicts the niche market will gain a larger share of total demands. Until now, under what condition which distribution is more likely to happen is still a myth. Literature has suggested using explainations such as availability of recommendation system, search tools and social network(Brynjolfsson et al 2011), social context (Elberse 2008),  scale economies(Rosen 1981), increasing return to advertising(Noe et al 2005), information cascade (Bikhchandani et al 1992; Duan et al 2009). But in this study we find both "Superstar" and "Long Tail" market exist in the mobile APP marketplaces which is hard to justify with above arguments. While we suggest a potential important but less discussed factor, the type of differentiation, might explain why some of these markets are concentrated towards the top list while others are concentrated along the tail in APP market.


Due to our limited knowledge, we did not find any economic analysis on under what condition which market is more likely to happen

there is no general conclusion as to which are more likely to happen in di


"Superstar" effect was used to explain income inequity and they find a marginal advantage is enough for super star to gain large markets(explain the phenomenon), (more explaination, software adoption, information goods). "long tail" distribution, on the other hand, argues  that the niche products gain a large share of total demands because of the availability of recommendation system and search tools. Until now, there is no general conclusion on under which condition one pariticular distribution is more likely to happen. 

(more discussion). 

While in this study we suggest a potential important but less discussed factor, the type of differentiation, could explain why some markets are concentrated towards the top list while others are concentrated along the tail in APP market.
