Becker 1968
In this case (and, as shortly seen, in several others), the optimal
values of p and f move in the same, rather than in opposite, directions.3'

An interesting application of these conclusions is to different kinds
of offenses. Although there are few objective measures of the damages
done by most offenses, it does not take much imagination to conclude
that offenses like murder or rape generally do more damage than petty
larceny or auto theft. If the other components of the loss in income were
the same, the optimal probability of apprehension and conviction and the
punishment when convicted would be greater for the more serious offenses.

Table 2 presents some evidence on the actual probabilities and
punishments in the United States for seven felonies. The punishments H
are simply the average prison sentences served, while the probabilities
are ratios of the estimated number of convictions to the estimated number
of offenses and unquestionably contain a large error (see the discussions i—
in Smigel, 1965, and Ehrlich, 1967). If other components of the loss function are ignored, and if actual and optimal probabilities and punishments
are positively related, one should find that the more serious felonies have
higher probabilities and longer prison terms. And one does: in the table, — which lists the felonies in decreasing order of presumed seriousness, < both the actual probabilities and the prison terms are positively related
to seriousness.



The cost of apprehending and convicting offenders is affected by a
variety of forces. An increase in the salaries of policemen increases both
C' and C,,, while improved police technology in the form of fingerprinting,
ballistic techniques, computer control, and chemical analysis, or police
and court "reform" with an emphasis on professionalism and merit,
would tend to reduce both, not necessarily by the same extent. Our anal ysis implies, therefore, that although an improvement in technology and
reform may or may not increase the optimal p and reduce the optimal
number of offenses, it does reduce the optimalf and thus the need to rely
on severe punishments for those convicted. Possibly this explains why the
secular improvement in police technology and reform has gone hand in
hand with a secular decline in punishments.


The income of a firm would usually be larger if it could separate, at
little cost, its total market into submarkets that have substantially different elasticities of demand: higher prices would be charged in the submarkets having lower elasticities. Similarly, if the total "market" for
offenses could be separated into submarkets that differ significantly in
the elasticities of supply of offenses, the results above imply that if b > 0
the total loss would be reduced by "charging" lower "prices" —that is,
lower p's and f's—in markets with !owei- elasticities.

Sometimes it is possible to separate persons committing the same
offense into groups that have different responses to punishments. For
example, unpremeditated murderers or robbers are supposed to act
impulsively and, therefore, to be relatively unresponsive to the size of
punishments; likewise, the insane or the young are probably less affected
than other offenders by future consequences and, therefore,33 probably
less deterred by increases in the probability of conviction or in the punishment when convicted. The trend during the twentieth century toward
relatively smaller prison terms and greater use of probation and therapy
for such groups and, more generally, the trend away from the doctrine of
"a given punishment for a given crime" is apparently at least broadly
consistent with the implications of the optimality analysis.

An increase in b increases the marginal revenue from changing the
number of offenses by changing p orf and thereby increases the optimal
number of offenses, reduces the optimal value off, and increases the optimal value of p. Some evidence presented in Section II indicates that b is
especially large for juveniles in detention homes or adults in prison and
is small for fines or adults on parole. The analysis implies, therefore, that
other things the same, the optimal f's would be smaller and the optimal
p's larger if punishment were by one of the former rather than one of the
latter methods.
