Moorthy 1988
 The purpose of this paper is to explore the theoretical underpinnings of this prescription. The need for such an exploration becomes evident when one sees how easy it is to overturn the prescription. Consider Figure 1, a typical two-dimensional perceptual map of consumers' ideal-points and firms' positions. The ideal-points are distributed uni-formly all over the map. Imagine a firm, called B, located at b. What position should we recommend for a new firm A entering this market? If we follow the "fill the holes in the
 market" prescription, then we would probably ask firm A to locate in the center of the quadrant south-west of b, at a. But this strategy doesn't maximize A's market-share. A can do better by moving along the line ab and positioning itself right next to B (but not quite at b)! That way, A assures itself of nearly all consumers whose ideal points lie south-west of b. Of course, if B could still change its position, it wouldn't like to stay at b; B would jump over A and position itself right next to A on the line ab. This jockeying for position would only end when both firms are at the "center" of the market, sharing it equally. Political scientists have used this sort of argument to explain the similarity of candidates' positions in elections; cf. Downs (1957), Riker and Ordeshook (1973,
 Chapters 12 and 13)
 
  Prices and costs play no role in the example above. But in reality they do. If a firm
 chooses a position too close to its competitors, then the ensuing price competition
 might be too intense. But if it chooses a position too far from its competitors, then the
 manufacturing costs may be too high and the market share too small. Another reality is
 the presence of substitutes outside the product class. In the example, we implicitly
 assumed that consumers stay with a firm as long as it is the best of the available
 alternatives (in that product class). Thus, a consumer located in the south-west corner
 of the market stayed with firm A as it moved from a toward b. What if consumers drop
 out of the market if all the available choices are "too far from them"? (In the political
 context, this would correspond to people not voting at all because they feel all candi-
 dates' positions are too far from theirs.) Would moving toward a competitor still be
 optimal?

 
 
Moorthy 1984
 The purpose of this paper is to develop a theory of market segmentation based on
 consumer self-selection. The existing theory, as described in Frank, Massy, and Wind
 (1972, pp. 178-183)-FMW, hereafter-is a monopoly theory based on Pigou's (1920)
 model of third-degree price discrimination, and it doesn't use consumer self-selection.'
 Instead, this theory assumes that the firm decides what marketing program each
 segment must receive and the only choice left to a consumer is whether to accept or
 reject what the firm has designed for his segment 
